# Anwendungspakete erstellen

Um [Probleme](https://github.com/joyent/node/issues/6960) mit langen Pfadnamen unter Windows zu entschärfen, `require` etwas zu beschleunigen und ihren Quellcode vor flüchtigen Blicken zu verstecken, können Sie Ihre App in ein [asar](https://github.com/electron/asar)-Archiv mit kleinen Änderungen am Code packen.

## `asar`-Archiv generieren

Ein [asar](https://github.com/electron/asar)-Archiv ist ein simples tar-ähnliches Format, das die Dateien in einer einzelnen Datei zusammenführt. Electron kann willkürliche Dateien aus dem Archiv lesen ohne diese zu entpacken.

Schritte um Ihre App in ein `asar`-Archiv zu packen:

### 1. Installieren Sie die "asar Utility"

```sh
$ npm install -g asar
```

### 2. Packen mit `asar pack`

```sh
$ asar pack your-app app.asar
```

## Verwenden von `asar` Archiven

In Electron existieren zwei Arten von APIs: Node APIs bereitgestellt von Node.js und Web APIs bereitgestellt von Chromium. Beide APIs unterstützen das Lesen von Dateien aus `asar`-Archiven.

### Node API

Mit speziellen Patches in Electron behandeln Node APIs (bspw. `fs.readFile` und `require`) `asar`-Archive als virtuelle Verzeichnisse und die Dateien darin als normale Dateien des Dateisystems.

Beispiel: Angenommen es existiert ein `example.asar`-Archiv unter `/path/to`:

```sh
$ asar list /path/to/example.asar
/app.js
/file.txt
/dir/module.js
/static/index.html
/static/main.css
/static/jquery.min.js
```

Lesen einer Datei im `asar`-Archiv:

```javascript
const fs = require('fs')
fs.readFileSync('/path/to/example.asar/file.txt')
```

Alle Dateien unterhalb der Archivwurzel auflisten:

```javascript
const fs = require('fs')
fs.readdirSync('/path/to/example.asar')
```

Ein Modul aus dem Archiv nutzen:

```javascript
require('/path/to/example.asar/dir/module.js')
```

Sie können außerdem eine Website in einem `asar`-Archiv mit `BrowserWindow` anzeigen lassen:

```javascript
const {BrowserWindow} = require('electron')
let win = new BrowserWindow({width: 800, height: 600})
win.loadURL('file:///path/to/example.asar/static/index.html')
```

### Web API

In a web page, files in an archive can be requested with the `file:` protocol. Like the Node API, `asar` archives are treated as directories.

For example, to get a file with `$.get`:

```html
<script>
let $ = require('./jquery.min.js')
$.get('file:///path/to/example.asar/file.txt', (data) => {
  console.log(data)
})
</script>
```

### Treating an `asar` Archive as a Normal File

For some cases like verifying the `asar` archive's checksum, we need to read the content of an `asar` archive as a file. For this purpose you can use the built-in `original-fs` module which provides original `fs` APIs without `asar` support:

```javascript
const originalFs = require('original-fs')
originalFs.readFileSync('/path/to/example.asar')
```

You can also set `process.noAsar` to `true` to disable the support for `asar` in the `fs` module:

```javascript
const fs = require('fs')
process.noAsar = true
fs.readFileSync('/path/to/example.asar')
```

## Limitations of the Node API

Even though we tried hard to make `asar` archives in the Node API work like directories as much as possible, there are still limitations due to the low-level nature of the Node API.

### Archives Are Read-only

The archives can not be modified so all Node APIs that can modify files will not work with `asar` archives.

### Working Directory Can Not Be Set to Directories in Archive

Though `asar` archives are treated as directories, there are no actual directories in the filesystem, so you can never set the working directory to directories in `asar` archives. Passing them as the `cwd` option of some APIs will also cause errors.

### Extra Unpacking on Some APIs

Most `fs` APIs can read a file or get a file's information from `asar` archives without unpacking, but for some APIs that rely on passing the real file path to underlying system calls, Electron will extract the needed file into a temporary file and pass the path of the temporary file to the APIs to make them work. This adds a little overhead for those APIs.

APIs that requires extra unpacking are:

* `child_process.execFile`
* `child_process.execFileSync`
* `fs.open`
* `fs.openSync`
* `process.dlopen` - Used by `require` on native modules

### Fake Stat Information of `fs.stat`

The `Stats` object returned by `fs.stat` and its friends on files in `asar` archives is generated by guessing, because those files do not exist on the filesystem. So you should not trust the `Stats` object except for getting file size and checking file type.

### Executing Binaries Inside `asar` Archive

There are Node APIs that can execute binaries like `child_process.exec`, `child_process.spawn` and `child_process.execFile`, but only `execFile` is supported to execute binaries inside `asar` archive.

This is because `exec` and `spawn` accept `command` instead of `file` as input, and `command`s are executed under shell. There is no reliable way to determine whether a command uses a file in asar archive, and even if we do, we can not be sure whether we can replace the path in command without side effects.

## Adding Unpacked Files in `asar` Archive

As stated above, some Node APIs will unpack the file to filesystem when calling, apart from the performance issues, it could also lead to false alerts of virus scanners.

To work around this, you can unpack some files creating archives by using the `--unpack` option, an example of excluding shared libraries of native modules is:

```sh
$ asar pack app app.asar --unpack *.node
```

After running the command, apart from the `app.asar`, there is also an `app.asar.unpacked` folder generated which contains the unpacked files, you should copy it together with `app.asar` when shipping it to users.